I'd like to talk to you about some faux
painting techniques foam means fake any
time you take a glaze and manipulate it
with the tool you're creating a fake
finish which is a faux finish I'm going
to show very quickly several methods of
glazing I just have a green glaze mixed
up here which is water-based which is
glazing liquid which is a transparent
paint some people call it with some
color added to it so it is a transparent
glaze the whole idea is that the under
ground shows through the top you can
apply this I will show you how to regs
most cases if I'm ragging I'm ragging
off and it's a large surface which means
big rooms and the water base is going to
dry too quickly and I will use oils the
ragging is not that popular of the
finisher anymore if you do brag on or
rag off in water base it's going to dry
very quickly and you end up with lap
lines overlaps dark places where it
dries this will of course is going to
work it's a small little surface and
take a rag cotton rag put it apply the
glaze usually with a roller and
literally rag roll the surface off I
also take the same rag because I'm not
real crazy about large patterns or ugly
stops and goes and it's called pouncing
you take the rag and you pounce over the
surface until it's softened and you
don't see Oh a rag did this the whole
idea is that you're creating a subtle
beautiful finish like that okay now
we're going to look at some stray
finishes Austria is removing a glaze in
a vertical or horizontal fashion there
are many different methods you can use a
wallpaper brush and use a notched out
squeegee which will create a combing
effect you can also just use a
a brush as a dragging tool and drag it
vertically or horizontally Crean this
again will be a water-based glaze I have
a very small surface in theory if I'm
removing a glaze I'm going to use an
oil-based product because it has an open
time which gives more time to remove it
before it dries the water base is going
to dry very quickly but for a
demonstration we would apply a glaze
transparent paint to the base coat and
take a tool and remove it this one is a
knotch squeegee that I had notched with
a knife carefully as you could in that
hold down fashion one time the problem
on a big wall is if you're going to
you're going down the wall and you move
you're going to get wood grain not a
straight so it's a very is this is an
advanced technique of combing it's also
good to comb the walls one way in one
direction allow it to dry and then the
next day drag the opposite way and
you'll end up with a beautiful silk like
pattern another method would be to drag
the through the glaze with a brush any
three or four five inch brush would do I
just happen to have this one it's also a
flogging brush and drag through that
glaze as straight as you can and that
removes the glaze in a vertical fashion
creating this look that's tree a or
dragging